Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to create the no special character and repeat character assessments.
All right, so the function structure is going to be basically the same.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to say this time it is going to be no is going to be no assessment
function.
So for that, we are going to say function is going to be no assess meant and we're going to pass a
password.
And inside this, we are going to call this character type assessment.
So we are going to say return not to forget this character type assessment.
Now it is going to accept three arguments.
So the first one is going to be password.
The second one is going to be the regular expression.
So what is the number, regular expression?
What is the regular expression that is only going to apply when you type in numbers?
So we could just simply say 029 And we want to grab all occurrences of that.
And finally, what is the assessment type that we want to provide is numbers.
So in the previous case we had upper case, in this case we had lower.
In this case we have numbers.
So let's save it.
Let's come here.
So if I say SD, it says the password has.
Where is that so?
Oh, we should push it to this assessment as well.
So I'm just going to say assessment dot push and we are going to grab our no assessment pass and the
password, let's save it.
So if I do SD now, you can see here it's this password has no numbers.
If I do want to, it's this password.
Must have more numbers.
I must have more.
And when you did one to four, that message is gone.
All right.
So the next assessment that I want to create, first off, I want to push it and that is going to be
the special character.
So special character, special character assessment.
Right, and we're going to pass and the password.
OK, now that is past and I'm going to come down here and let's just copy this comment, put it here.
This is going to be a special character assessment.
OK, so let's create the function, it is a special character assessment and we are going to pass and
password.
Now we are going to return the character type assessment.
Now you can see how easy this is, how useful this function is.
We can just call it and we can create as many assessments as we want.
We don't have to just like, keep repeating ourselves with this f f f f statements.
Just we just have to call that this character type assessment.
Now, the first argument is going to be the password.
The second one is going to be the regular expression.
So how do you create a regular expression for something that is a special character?
So a special character.
If you provide a carrot inside the brackets for regular expression, it says it is a not a quality.
You can think of it like that.
It is not operator.
So a special character is something that is not 029 that is not A to Z lowercase, that is not A to
Z Uppercase and that is not the space.
And we want to grasp all occurrences of it.
So let's pass that.
And and finally, what is going to be the message?
The message is going to be special characters.
So if I say one to Q, W, E, three, a, C, V, it snuffs his password, has no special character.
So if I do an asterisk more a 10 percent more a dollar sign, that's enough.
And we can see that the strength is 100.
So this is the special character assessment.
And finally, we are going to create a regular expression for a repeat character assessments.
And what do we want to do basically here, if the user repeats one letter more than one time, we want
to throw an error there.
Right.
Just just just a heads up.
It's not an error.
So down here, I'm going to create a function and I'm going to call it repeat.
Character.
Character says meant.
And we are going to pass them the password.
First off, let's create our matches, right.
And the reason that I'm not calling this within this function is because this function no longer works
for a repeat character assessment.
Right.
And I'm going to say repeat character's assessment and we are going to call it a repeat char match or
a repeat character match.
And we're going to grab our password and we're going to say match.
We want to match it against the following regular expression.
So we are going to use the period or the wildcard character, the period or the wildcard character is
going to be anything.
It is going to it could be anything.
And we say, if anything, if anything, or if any character has been repeated more than once, we want
to grab the all occurrences of that.
So, for example, at the start of the password, you have to A's at the middle, you have two WS.
At the end you have two choices.
We want to grab all occurrences of any character that has been repeated more than once.
If we cannot grab it, we just return an empty array.
So we said f repeat, repeat, character, match that length, what is the length if the length is greater
than zero?
So even if there is one character that is that has been repeated.
Right.
What do we want to do?
We want to return an object.
What is the object?
It is going to be password check.
We already know that.
And we are going to say password.
We are going to has repeat characters.
And the next one, what is the strength lost, so the strength lost is going to be a dynamic value based
on each character which has been repeated, we are going to reduce it by 10 percent.
So we are going to say strength, strength lost, should be should have a value of our character match
length.
So what is the where is the repeat character match length dott length and describe this length.
You could go ahead and create a variable for this and then pass the variable there and here.
But this is more intuitive and for teaching purposes this is better if I do it like this.
But you could I'm showing you how this is actually this is, this will look more professional.
Just grab this, create a another constant but create another variable and then grab the value from
here stored there called the variable here and call the variable here.
And we are going to multiply it by ten.
So 10 percent.
So if we don't have any repeat characters, the value of length is going to be zero.
This this only works when the length has more than zero.
So if it is zero, this if statement is not even going to run, if it is one which is greater than zero,
they're going to pass one here one time.
Steane strength, loss.
It is going to be 10.
If it is five, five times ten, it is going to be 50 percent.
So we have created this here.
Let's go ahead and let's push it to this area as well.
So we are going to say assessment dot push and we are going to repeat character assessment that's pass
and the password.
So if I say one.
Password input, that match type error, or is the type Sunline 98.
So it says.
Is password input match.
Oh, this should be sorry, this should be password, this should not be password inpart.
All right.
So I do see a typo here.
So before actually going forward and testing, I'm just going to put it to repeat character Majadele
length times.
So for each of our a repeated character, our strength should be decreased by 10 percent.
So let's go ahead and test it out.
We have three numbers, one, two, three.
And we have lowercase letters, capital letters.
We have it says password could be longer.
It says we don't have any special characters.
So you know what?
I'm just going to go ahead and zoom this in back to 100 percent.
So let's go ahead.
And it's provide three special characters.
Now, if I provide L, it is OK, but if I provide the second out, then we can see that our strength
has been decreased by one hundred percent, which it shouldn't do, that we have our repeat character
match and then we have oh, we didn't save it.
So let's save that.
Let's come here.
So one, two, three.
Q SD Right.
And we are going to pass in three symbols.
So our password has numbers, uppercase characters, lowercase characters, special characters and let's
check it out for repeat characters.
So for the second four should decrease it by 10 percent.
There we go.
The third one should decrease it by 10 percent further.
So so each couple of repeated characters is going to decrease it by 10 percent.
So A, XRX, C, C, B, B and M and ETR R so until we go ahead and we, we end up with a password that
is zero percent strong.
So that's it for this application and this chapter.
See you guys in the next one.